# Virtual-Lab-with-Threat-Detection-
(This is only half way through)
As most projects this was exciting, frustrating and challenging. My objectives were to build a fully virtual cyber security lab and gain experience in networking, detection, and attack simulations. For the midterm and halfway through my goals were to build the virtual machines and connect them through pfsense. I first used Virtual Workstation Pro and designed a multi-tiered network with pfsense as the primary firewall. I then found Security Onion and added it for traffic monitoring. I then added the multiple machines Windows, Ubuntu, and Kali Linux that will be used for different responsibilities like networking, attacking, and vulnerability assessing. I had thought this would have been a straightforward connection and downloading project that would be done in a couple weeks but this quickly turned into more. I had to reset and redownload more than I thought, had to reconnect and debug more than I had thought, and troubleshooted and patiently waited more than I had thought. Though there were many hiccups that cost me days, I gained a lot of experience in firewall configuration, network segmentation, virtual networking, and security monitoring. 
	One of the more known and relaxed parts of the project is working with pfsense as many of the classes we have learned and worked with firewall connections. I learned a lot more about network adapters and how firewalls operate in a n enterprise environment. I encountered many challenges such as ensuring proper connections and setting correct configurations. Also a more relaxed part was the Kali setup which with their download allowed for an easy virtual machine environment already. I didn't have much trouble but did see why some would choose Linux over Windows. 
	To continue, setting up Windows and Ubuntu to function with the network infrastructure was an intriguing and fun part of the project. These helped with connectivity, segmentation, and showed me how a virtual machine can interact within the network I built. It was at times tricky and hard to configure but I came out with a more impactful knowledge of these operating systems and their attributes.
	Most frustrating part was Security Onion as when I learned about it, it sounded great to add to my workstation but doing so I had to rest/reboot/redownload close to 20 times and it took two downloads that are both around 30-60 minutes and this was aggravating. I did learn about the tools it brings and was able to mess around with it.  Similarly was the longing configuration of  pfsense through Kali which was fun as it helped me gain a larger sense of firewall rules and configurations. I got to see how my built network was used and segmented. I got to understand the power and fute use of the pfsense and anticipate the next steps.
	The images below serve as my evidence of work completed. I tried to make as many screenshots and tried to be thorough as possible without being too long. There were many times where I had to delete images to add a newer and better image. Hopefully my screenshots are clear and coincide to show you my work and effort in this portion of the project. 
	All in all this project was both rewarding and exhausting but through it all this has been a great experience and I can't wait to add it to my resume and github. Here I was able to get hands-on experience and see my networking come to life. This strengthened all my skills and gave me insight into cyber security roles. I now feel more confident in my abilities 
